Bureau of Justice Statistics "Title. Estimated number of inmates held in local
jails or under the jurisdiction of state or federal prisons and incarceration
rate, 1980-2014" "Data source:  Bureau of Justice Statistics, Annual Probation
Survey, Annual Parole Survey, Annual Survey of Jails, Census of Jail Inmates,
and National Prisoner Statistics Program, 1980-2014"

Refer questions to: askbjs@usdoj.gov or 202-307-0765 Date of version: 1/12/2016

"Estimated number and rate of persons supervised by U.S. adult correctional
systems, by correctional status, 1980-2014"

"Note: Estimates may not be comparable to previously published BJS tables or
reports due to updated information. Counts were rounded to the nearest 100 and
include estimates for nonresponding jurisdictions. Rates were rounded to the
nearest 10. All probation, parole, prison counts and rates are for December 31;
local jail counts and rates are for the last weekday in June. "

"Total Correctional Population Note: Includes persons living in the community
while supervised on probation or parole and inmates incarcerated in state or
federal prisons or held in local jails. Includes adjustments made to account for
offenders with multiple correctional statuses to prevent double counting of
individuals: prisoners held in local jails were excluded from the total
incarcerated and total correctional population counts; starting in 1998,
probationers who were incarcerated in prisons or local jails were excluded from
the total correctional population count;  starting in 2005, parolees who were
incarcerated in prisons or local jails were excluded from the total correctional
population count; and starting in 2008, parolees who were also on probation were
excluded from the total community supervision and total correctional population
counts."

"Community Supervision Population Note: Includes persons living in the community
while supervised on probation or parole and some offenders held in a prison or
local jail but who remained under the jurisdiction of a probation or parole
agency. Starting in 2008, parolees who were also on probation were excluded from
the total."

Incarcerated Population Note: Prisoners held in local jails were excluded from
the total to prevent double counting.

"Number in prison or local jail per 100,000 U.S. residents age 18 or older Note:
Represents the incarceration rate which is a different statistic than the
imprisonment rate. BJS defines the imprisonment rate as the number of prisoners
under state or federal jurisdiction sentenced to more than 1 year per 100,000
U.S. residents. The imprisonment rate is presented in Prisoners in 2014, NCJ
248955, BJS web, September 2015. See that BJS report and Correctional
Populations in the United States, 2014, NCJ 249513, BJS web, December 2015 for
more information on the difference between the two statistics."

"1998-1999 Note: Coverage of probation agencies was expanded. Therefore, the
total correctional and community supervision estimates may not be comparable to
prior years. "

"Source:  Bureau of Justice Statistics, Annual Probation Survey, Annual Parole,
Survey, Annual Survey of Jails, Census of Jail Inmates, and National Prisoner
Statistics Program, 1980-2014; and U.S. Census Bureau, postcensal estimated
resident population for January 1 of the following year, 1981-2015."
